# Class 401.41

## Notes

## Readings
[getting started with react native](https://facebook.github.io/react-native/docs/getting-started)

1. Name three Core Components of React Native and describe what they do.

   > View, Text, and Image are three core components of React Native. View is for creating containers, Text is for displaying text, and Image is for displaying images.

2. What problem does React Native solve (why call it native)?

   > React Native solves the problem of writing separate code for Android and iOS. It's called 'native' because it renders native components, allowing your app to have the same look and feel as any other mobile application.

3. What are the building blocks of a React Native app? How does that compare to a React app?

   > The building blocks of a React Native app are components, which are JavaScript functions. This is similar to a React app, but while React uses HTML and CSS, React Native uses native components.

[expo](https://expo.dev/)

1. What solution does expo provide?

   > Expo provides a set of tools and services for building, deploying, and quickly iterating on iOS, Android, and web apps from the same JavaScript/TypeScript codebase.

2. Expo tries to manage as much of the complexity of building apps as possible, which is why we call it the ____________ workflow.

   > Managed.

3. What is the difference between React Native and Expo?

   > While React Native is a framework for building native apps using JavaScript and React, Expo is a set of tools built around React Native to help you quickly start an app. It provides a set of APIs that are compatible with both iOS and Android.

[expo snack](https://snack.expo.io/)

1.  Checkout this tool.  What does snack allow you to do?  

   > Snack allows you to run code in the browser and see the results in real-time on your mobile device or in a simulator/emulator.

[ejecting](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/expokit/eject)

1. What does "eject" mean within the context of Expo?

   > 'Ejecting' in Expo means you're moving from the managed workflow (where Expo handles the configuration for you) to the bare workflow (where you have full control over every aspect of your application, but also have to manage all configuration).

2. When should you not eject?

   > You should not eject when you're still in the rapid development and prototyping phase of your project, or if you don't want to manage native code.

3. Why might you choose to eject?

   > You might choose to eject if you need more control over your application, like using native libraries that Expo does not support, or if you want to write custom native code.

  
## Things I want to learn more about

### References
- Google Bard and ChatGPT
