# Class 401.17

## Notes

## Readings
[AWS S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/)

1. What is Amazon S3?
> Amazon S3 (Simple Storage Service) is a scalable object storage service from Amazon Web Services (AWS) that allows users to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.

2. Name some use cases for Amazon S3.
> Some use cases of Amazon S3 include backup and restore, content distribution, data archiving, and website hosting. 

3. Name some benefits of using Amazon S3.
> Benefits of using Amazon S3 include durability, scalability, security, flexibility, and cost-effectiveness. 

[AWS Lambda Basics](https://www.serverless.com/aws-lambda)

4. What is AWS Lambda?
> AWS Lambda is a compute service that runs your code in response to events, automatically managing the compute resources for you, making it easy to build applications that respond quickly to new information.

5. Name some use cases for AWS Lambdas.
> Some use cases for AWS Lambda include real-time file processing, real-time stream processing, extracting transforming and loading (ETL) for data, and running code in response to HTTP requests using Amazon API Gateway.

6. Describe "serverless" to a non-technical friend.
> "Serverless" is a way to run your applications without having to manage servers. It's like renting a fully furnished house instead of buying a vacant one and needing to take care of everything - the landlord takes care of the maintenance for you.

[CDN](https://cyberhoot.com/cybrary/content-delivery-network-cdn/)

7. What is a CDN?
> A Content Delivery Network (CDN) is a system of distributed servers that deliver web content to a user based on the user's geographic location, the origin of the webpage and the content delivery server.

8. How does a CDN work with relation to the website visitor?
> A CDN delivers a webpage to a user from the closest geographical server. So, if a user in New York accesses a website hosted in California, a CDN might deliver the content from a server in New York instead of California, thereby reducing the time it takes to load the webpage.

9. What are the benefits of employing a CDN?
> A CDN can increase website loading speed, reduce bandwidth costs, increase content availability and redundancy, and improve website security.

## Things I want to learn more about

### References
- Google Bard and ChatGPT
