# Class 201.01

## Read 02

### Introduction to HTML
1. Why is it important to use semantic elements in our HTML?
> semantics give the humans reading our code (and indeed scrapers) an intuitive understanding about what data is being displayed, and how/where to find it.

2. How many levels of headings are there in HTML?
> There are six, and no more than 3 different headings are recommended per page. One should use them in the correct order too (i.e. h2 always comes before h3)

3. What are some uses for the `<sup>` and `<sub>` elements?
> `<sup>` is a superscript E = mc<sup>2</sup>
> `<sub` is a subscript H<sub>2</sub>O

4. When using the `<abbr>` element, what attribute must be added to provide the full expansion of the term?
> the `<title>` attribute should be used to convey the full meaning of the term that you're abbreviating.

### Learn CSS
1. What are ways we can apply CSS to our HTML?
> - *external stylesheet*: referencing a .css file using `<style>` in the `<head>` section.
> - *internal stylesheet*: css code written in the HTML file, using the `<style>` element, also within the `<head>` section.
> - *inline*: you add the attribute directly in the element itself, as follows:
```<p style="color:red;">This is my first CSS example</p>```


2. Why should we avoid using inline styles?
> - it's inefficient for maintenance, and difficult to read/understand.
> - it might only be used when using a CMS or other system that doesn't let you add a CSS file, or alter the internal ss.


3. Review the block of code below and answer the following questions:
```css
        h2 {
          color: black;
          padding: 5px;
        }
```
> - 1. What is representing the selector?
>   - The selector is represented by h2
> - 2. Which components are the CSS declarations?
>   - when a property is paired with a value, that makes it a CSS declaration. The CSS declarations here are `color: black` and `padding: 5px`.
> - 3. Which components are considered properties?
>   - `color` and `padding`

### Learn JS
#### Javascript Basics
1. What data type is a sequence of text enclosed in single quote marks?
> - this is a string
2. List 4 types of JavaScript operators.
> - Arithmetic operators (+, -, *, /, %)
> - Assignment operators (=, +=, -=)
> - Comparison operators (==, ===, !=, !==, <, >, <=, >=)
> - Logical operators (&&, ||, !)

3. Describe a real world Problem you could solve with a Function.
> - one could calculate the cost of all the items within a shopping cart (e.g. `calculateTotalCost()`)

#### Making Decisions In Your Code – Conditionals.
1. An if statement checks a __ and if it evaluates to ___, then the code block will execute.
> conditional statement, True

2. What is the use of an else if?
> if the previous conditional statements are not true, then more conditional statements are tested.

3. List 3 different types of comparison operators.
>I'm listing 4 so that I remember this for later:
>- *Equality Operator (==)*: Checks if two values are equal, irrespective of their data types. For example, `4 == "4"` would be true.
> - *Strict Equality Operator (===)*: Checks if two values are equal in both value and data type. For example, `4 === "4"` would be false.
> - *Inequality Operator (!=)*: Checks if two values are not equal; only the values not the data types. So, `4 != "4"` would be false.
> - *Strict Inequality Operator (!==)*: Checks if two values are not equal; the values AND the data types. So, `4 !== "4"` is true.

4. What is the difference between the logical operator && and ||?
> - *&& (AND)*: returns TRUE if all conditionals are also true. One False and the whole thing returns FALSE.
> - *|| (OR)*: only one TRUE needs to be returned for the OR to return a TRUE. If there are no TRUE's, then a FALSE is returned.



## Notes
- CSS orders things based on cascading(i.e. order) and specificity
  - do if I define a p tag with two colors, the second color will be in effect (so last one defined "wins")
  - specificity goes like this `general > class > id`
- one can actually call functions in CSS ([check this link out](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/First_steps/How_CSS_is_structured#properties_and_values) for an example). Examples include `calc()` and `rotate()`
- when using `git commit` always include a message that is useful. How is something useful? Well, don't say WHAT you changed something, say WHY you changed it.
  - also use a Subject and Body of message to convey more complex commits.

## Things I want to know more about


## Q&A's


