# Class 201.08

## Notes
- Flexbox: To be clear, let's reiterate what is happening here. The element we've given a display value of flex to is acting like a block-level element in terms of how it interacts with the rest of the page, but its children are laid out as flex items. 
- 

## Readings
- [Learn CSS - Flexbox](https://web.dev/learn/css/flexbox/)
- [CSS Layout - Flexbox, Read up to “Flex-Flow Shorthand”](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Flexbox)
- [Learn CSS - Layout](https://web.dev/learn/css/layout/)

## Q&A's

CSS is fundamental to any coding, even backend, because everything touches a webpage eventually!

### Learn CSS
1. Flexbox is designed for one-dimensional content. Explain what this means.
> allows you to easily organize elements in a row or a column, but not both simultaneously
> It simplifies the process of creating flexible and responsive layouts, particularly when dealing with items in a linear sequence, without having to resort to complex float or positioning properties.

2. Explain the difference between the main axis and cross axis.
> main-axis is the flow we're interested in, and cross-axis is the one perpedicular to that
> 
> main-axis is determined by `flex-direction` (e.g. `row` and `column`)

3. How can using certain properties of flexbox negatively impact accessibility?
> not all languages has the same main-axis


### CSS Layout - Flexbox
1. What are some advantages of using flexbox over float?
> can adapt to any size rendering
> easier and more intuitive

2. How does this topic connect with your long term goals?
> I need to have rudmentary understanding of front-end technologies; everything is connected to the web!

3. Bookmark and Review



#### References 
- Google Bard and ChatGPT
